package Moose::Cookbook::Snack::Keywords;

# ABSTRACT: Restricted "keywords" in Moose

__END__

=pod

=head1 NAME

Moose::Cookbook::Snack::Keywords - Restricted "keywords" in Moose

=head1 VERSION

version 2.1005

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Moose exports a number of sugar functions in order to emulate Perl
built-in keywords. These can cause clashes with other user-defined
functions. This document provides a list of those keywords for easy
reference.

=head2 The 'meta' keyword

C<S<use Moose>> adds a method called C<meta> to your class. If this
conflicts with a method or function you are using, you can rename it,
or prevent it from being installed entirely. To do this, pass the
C<-meta_name> option when you C<S<use Moose>>. For instance:

  # install it under a different name
  use Moose -meta_name => 'moose_meta';

  # don't install it at all
  use Moose -meta_name => undef;

=head2 Moose Keywords

If you are using L<Moose> or L<Moose::Role> it is best to avoid these
keywords:

=over 4

=item extends

=item with

=item has

=item before

=item after

=item around

=item super

=item override

=item inner

=item augment

=item confess

=item blessed

=back

=head2 Moose::Util::TypeConstraints Keywords

If you are using L<Moose::Util::TypeConstraints> it is best to avoid
these keywords:

=over 4

=item type

=item subtype

=item class_type

=item role_type

=item maybe_type

=item duck_type

=item as

=item where

=item message

=item optimize_as

=item inline_as

=item coerce

=item from

=item via

=item enum

=item find_type_constraint

=item register_type_constraint

=back

=head2 Avoiding collisions

=head3 Turning off Moose

To remove the sugar functions L<Moose> exports, just add C<S<no Moose>>
at the bottom of your code:

  package Thing;
  use Moose;

  # code here

  no Moose;

This will unexport the sugar functions that L<Moose> originally
exported. The same will also work for L<Moose::Role> and
L<Moose::Util::TypeConstraints>.

=head3 Sub::Exporter features

L<Moose>, L<Moose::Role> and L<Moose::Util::TypeConstraints> all use
L<Sub::Exporter> to handle all their exporting needs. This means that
all the features that L<Sub::Exporter> provides are also available to
them.

For instance, with L<Sub::Exporter> you can rename keywords, like so:

  package LOL::Cat;
  use Moose 'has' => { -as => 'i_can_haz' };

  i_can_haz 'cheeseburger' => (
      is      => 'rw',
      trigger => sub { print "NOM NOM" }
  );

  LOL::Cat->new->cheeseburger('KTHNXBYE');

See the L<Sub::Exporter> docs for more information.

=head3 namespace::autoclean and namespace::clean

You can also use L<namespace::autoclean> to clean up your namespace.
This will remove all imported functions from your namespace. Note
that if you are importing functions that are intended to be used as
methods (this includes L<overload>, due to internal implementation
details), it will remove these as well.

Another option is to use L<namespace::clean> directly, but
you must be careful not to remove C<meta> when doing so:

  package Foo;
  use Moose;
  use namespace::clean -except => 'meta';
  # ...

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item L<Moose>

=item L<Moose::Role>

=item L<Moose::Util::TypeConstraints>

=item L<Sub::Exporter>

=item L<namespace::autoclean>

=item L<namespace::clean>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Moose is maintained by the Moose Cabal, along with the help of many contributors. See L<Moose/CABAL> and L<Moose/CONTRIBUTORS> for details.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2013 by Infinity Interactive, Inc..

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
