package Moose::Cookbook::Snack::Types;

# ABSTRACT: Snippets of code for using Types and Type Constraints

__END__

=pod

=head1 NAME

Moose::Cookbook::Snack::Types - Snippets of code for using Types and Type Constraints

=head1 VERSION

version 2.1005

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  package Point;
  use Moose;

  has 'x' => ( isa => 'Int', is => 'ro' );
  has 'y' => ( isa => 'Int', is => 'rw' );

  package main;
  use Try::Tiny;

  my $point = try {
      Point->new( x => 'fifty', y => 'forty' );
  }
  catch {
      print "Oops: $_";
  };

  my $point;
  my $xval             = 'forty-two';
  my $xattribute       = Point->meta->find_attribute_by_name('x');
  my $xtype_constraint = $xattribute->type_constraint;

  if ( $xtype_constraint->check($xval) ) {
      $point = Point->new( x => $xval, y => 0 );
  }
  else {
      print "Value: $xval is not an " . $xtype_constraint->name . "\n";
  }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is the Point example from
L<Moose::Cookbook::Basics::Point_AttributesAndSubclassing> with type checking
added.

If we try to assign a string value to an attribute that is an C<Int>,
Moose will die with an explicit error message. The error will include
the attribute name, as well as the type constraint name and the value
which failed the constraint check.

We use L<Try::Tiny> to catch this error message.

Later, we get the L<Moose::Meta::TypeConstraint> object from a
L<Moose::Meta::Attribute> and use the L<Moose::Meta::TypeConstraint>
to check a value directly.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item L<Moose::Cookbook::Basics::Point_AttributesAndSubclassing>

=item L<Moose::Util::TypeConstraints>

=item L<Moose::Meta::Attribute>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Moose is maintained by the Moose Cabal, along with the help of many contributors. See L<Moose/CABAL> and L<Moose/CONTRIBUTORS> for details.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2013 by Infinity Interactive, Inc..

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
