package Moose::Cookbook::Basics::Immutable;

# ABSTRACT: Making Moose fast by making your class immutable

__END__

=pod

=head1 NAME

Moose::Cookbook::Basics::Immutable - Making Moose fast by making your class immutable

=head1 VERSION

version 2.1005

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  package Point;
  use Moose;

  has 'x' => ( isa => 'Int', is => 'ro' );
  has 'y' => ( isa => 'Int', is => 'rw' );

  __PACKAGE__->meta->make_immutable;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The Moose metaclass API provides a C<make_immutable()> method. Calling
this method does two things to your class. First, it makes it
faster. In particular, object construction and destruction are
effectively "inlined" in your class, and no longer invoke the meta
API.

Second, you can no longer make changes via the metaclass API, such as
adding attributes. In practice, this won't be a problem, as you rarely
need to do this after first loading the class.

=head1 CONCLUSION

We strongly recommend you make your classes immutable. It makes your
code much faster, with a small compile-time cost. This will be
especially noticeable when creating many objects.

=head1 AUTHOR

Moose is maintained by the Moose Cabal, along with the help of many contributors. See L<Moose/CABAL> and L<Moose/CONTRIBUTORS> for details.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2013 by Infinity Interactive, Inc..

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
